It's 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
and here in Hong Kong, you're watching
the China Show. I'm Annabel Drooers with
David and Glass.
>> Good morning. Let's get to your top
stories today. Asian stocks rising with
Korea leading these gains after a
techled rebound and strong economic
numbers boosting Wall Street.
>> Investors also weighing the latest Fed
minutes with officials indicating a
shift away from agreeing on further rate
cuts, putting the central bank on a
collision course with President Trump.
Also ahead, a major US arm sale to
Taiwan is reportedly in doubt after
pressure from Chinese President Xi
Jinping and concerns within the Trump
White House.
>> And Prime Minister Narendra Modi set to
address global tech executives at
India's AI impact summit later today.
That's as his country seeks to attract
more investment. We're live from New
Delhi.
right? Um, lots to get through actually.
So, on top of obviously we have four
markets that are uh still shut today.
You have proxies though that will I
think give you a really good indication
of the big themes across these markets.
And I think the most direct one would be
the Korea story which continues to give.
We've been waiting for this and we have
initial reports of this uh potential
negotiations around higher HBM4 prices.
>> Yeah, that's right. So, we just actually
had some local media reporting in the
last couple of hours, but talking about
the price for HBM4. So that's the the
most upto-date version of high bandwidth
memory that's on the market and it's
just being started to supply at at mass
scale now to key customer Nvidia of
course but we're just getting more sense
of of what the pricing could actually
end up being and and chosen the
newspaper is reporting it's likely to be
around $700 uh and you compare that to
where we saw HBM3 for instance again
according to their reporting but it was
around mid500 so it's about 20 to 30%
higher for HBM4 which really just tells
you the sort of pricing power that these
companies have. That's SKH Highix and
Samsung of course that really dominate
the HBM market.
>> Yeah. Which would be I think when you
look at the buyers for the Nvidia for
example would be of course counter to
their margins right someone else's
profit margin is someone else's squeeze
uh as well. Uh on top of that obviously
so we're dealing with a higher tech play
today. Obviously that rotation back into
MAG 7 overnight. Uh the macro picture is
still a stronger dollar. Um the Fed
minutes indicate of course this
>> interesting will and openness to hike
interest rates given of course the
inflation dynamics there and that's
really leading to higher yields as we
speak and you know really on a day when
you would expect a stronger dollar and
higher yields to uh to really hit risk
assets. It's the Korea story which we
just pointed out really offsetting uh
most of that right now. Okay, let's
let's have a look at markets right now
and you know how we're we should be
approaching the open. Of course lots of
markets are still shut as we were
pointing out. So you don't have Taiwan,
which should be coming online uh right
now. No mainland China, no Hong Kong,
and also no Vietnam, which opens up uh
in the next hour. Although you have
futures trading online uh over in
Singapore, NIK is better by a 10 to 1%.
We have a deeper dive into really that
specific market later on in the show.
The Nickey
level historically, it's absolute level
relative to others are also trading
quite substantially to the to the
upside. 3%. That's really the market
story today. Korea, we talked about
this. In fact, it's showing up in your
usual names and the suppliers of those
usual names on your screens, 4.3% to the
upside. The dollar, as we talked about
there, Bloomberg dollar index.
Obviously, there's the weakness in the
euro uh down to conversation around the
ECB. I think 50-day moving average as
far as that's concerned. We're stronger
on the yen, but that's simply coming off
the worst day in several weeks there on
the Japanese uh on the Japanese
currency. Uh and we're also just also
trading at let's have a look please at
the next board if we can. Um there we go
on your screen. So the 2-year yield and
the twos and 30s bottom of the screens
here. was slightly steeper on on the
curve and yeah per perhaps still a tail
risk here but could the next move of the
Fed even if it's 12 or so months out be
a hike anyway we'll we'll get to that
later on
>> I think it's really interesting and and
it really complicates the task for for
Trump's nominee of course Kevin Walsh
even when he is appointed to to replace
Jay Pal but let's get back to that top
story we're discussing of course it is
the local media reporting in Korea this
morning about where Samsung is setting
its crisis for HBM4. With us is our
Bloomberg managing editor for Asia
Equities, Leanting 2, who joins us this
morning. So, Leanting, I mean, this is
really just lit a further fire under
Korean equities this morning.
>> Yeah, indeed. Uh, it is it is as you
guys said 20 to 30% higher than its
predecessor chip and uh that would mean
according to Bloomberg Intelligence uh
profit margin on these chips for Samsung
at 60%. That is really really high.
Overall, I would say Korea market opened
on a good day. If you look at overnight
trading in the US, it seems uh fears uh
of AI disruption has receded and uh more
investors have come to realize that the
software selloff was overdone and there
was also a lot of positive news on the
AI front. If you look at Meta, they
agreed to deploy millions of Nvidia
processors uh processors I should say
over the next few years. And even Apple
came out to say they are accelerating
development of three new wearable
devices using uh AI and all of that
leads to memory chips and who are the
makers or biggest suppliers of memory
chips. You know we're looking at Samsung
and SK highinex. So today we see retail
buyers really going in to buy a lot of
Korean stocks in and also local
institutional investors also went in
today.
Leing outside of tech and you know a lot
of that is Korea some of that in is is
in Japan. Are there any other factors
and themes that your team's paying
attention to on what really is still a
very quiet day outside of that story?
Yeah, I think Japan obviously is also
riding high on this AI optimism as I
just uh talked about in the US
overnight. And one thing I think our
team is looking at for a story in a few
days time is just really the uh optimism
in China and I don't know if you guys
saw a lot of Instagram videos about sea
dance really coming out with that kind
of video app that got people really
excited about I know Hong Kong's shut
but I think there is just a lot of
optimism building about uh the sector in
China the LLM makers that are actually
not listed in the US, right? In China,
we in Hong Kong, I should say, we see
Miniax and Jupy coming out with some
kind of breakthrough models that could
really compete with the AI leaders uh
for the lack of uh anthropic and uh and
these, you know, anthropic and open AI
are not listed in the US. So, com
companies or or I should say investors
are really looking at uh those publicly
listed Chinese stocks to pile their
money into. So I think we're looking at
a strong open potentially in Hong Kong
after the big gain that we saw on Monday
for the likes of LLM makers.
Leanting thanks very much for joining us
this morning. that was our Bloomberg
managing editor for Asia Equities
Leanting too there and I think it's also
just important on that on that story as
well just the reporting around how much
these companies are benefiting from
these rising prices as well because
you've actually got analysts now saying
it could be possible to see 30 trillion
one operating profit on a quarterly
basis for these companies and we've
never seen that for the Korea market.
>> Yeah. And I mean what that means from a
market perspective is even if you're up
30% on Korea, it's still really one of
the cheapest markets in Asia because of
that earnings follow through that's
coming through. In fact, we were having
a look at this earlier on because we
talked about this Japan story, right?
And Korea is still trading in single
digits. I think nine times forward PE uh
despite the fact that you know the
markets more than doubled, right, over
the last 12 months or so. But yes, I
mean uh astounding numbers. one though
that you would expect from having really
the two central companies to really
where the where the supply pinch is
happening.
>> Yeah, that's it. Yeah, Samsung, SKH
really the ones to watch of course. But
uh let's shift to our other top story
this morning because we've got the
latest Fed minutes showing officials
were surprisingly wary of cutting
interest rates when they met last month.
That's with some suggesting hikes might
not be needed if inflation remains high.
Let's go to Washington and our Bloomberg
Fed and economy reporter Ender Curran.
So Ender I mean these minutes are very
interesting to pass over. What were the
key takeaways for you?
>> Well Annabelle several takeaways. The
first as you say Fed officials certainly
in no hurry to cut rates further from
here. The minutes were laced with
references to stabilizing labor market
and and worries about inflation. So I
think the stabilizing labor market
probably comes as something of a
surprise to many observers given the
Fed's commentary on the labor market
into late last year. But then the kind
of big standout line was this idea that
several officials actually even felt
that the statement and their
communications to the public should
reflect that look interest rates could
go either way. The next it's possible
there could be a rate hike given that
inflation remains above its 2% goal. Now
to be clear that does not mean the Fed
is signaling a rate hike. It's reference
to views of several members and I say
you know maybe four or five policy
makers on the FOMC
but the very fact that you know after a
year of worries about the labor market
um warnings about not wanting to get
behind the curve lowering interest rates
by 75 basis points into late last year.
Then here we were, first meeting of the
year and there's a line in there warning
that it's potentially that, you know,
policy makers may need to think about
typing at some point going forward. That
was quite a surprise, a standout line,
and I think overall is why Fed watchers
think these minutes had a pretty pretty
hawkish tilt to them.
>> And just one one last question on the
Fed before we we get to the ECB. Would
it be safe? Well, obviously it's a
spectrum of things. It's not as if the
next move is likely going to be a hike.
Well, you know, that could change. But
is it is it safe to assume that the
balance of risks and we talked about how
a weak labor market in the US was, you
know, the the mand the mandate of the
two that the Fed was focused on has that
now clearly shifted in favor of again
inflation?
>> Well, that's a good question, David. As
I as I mentioned earlier, this language
around the labor market stabilizing, I
think is um is interesting because we
know that the jobs market last year had
its worst year for job creation uh
outside of a recession since 2003. So, a
soft labor market is be is is isn't is
beyond is acceptable by all. But
obviously the policy makers think the
worst for that is now behind and perhaps
for the year ahead given the back drop
of strong GDP growth labor market strong
to your point they're perhaps turning
their attention back to inflation and
that's why these warnings about what the
language should say about potential for
a hike at some point making it clear
that inflation remains persistently
above the Fed's 2% target. But look as
you say we have a long way to go in all
of this. We need several months of
readings on both on the labor market and
on inflation to really get a good
handle. And I think the Fed debate will
probably remain topsyturvy until, you
know, a few months from now when we get
a much clearer narrative on where things
are going.
>> And just as Dave mentioned, we do want
to get to the ECB because we had that
Financial Times report that perhaps uh
Christine Lagard, the ECB president,
could be looking to exit before her term
ends. Uh there's a number of questions
that are raised from that and our
Bloomberg economics team has been
writing about them but but what are you
thinking about so far?
>> Well look lots of details that we don't
yet know Annabelle but as you say FT
reporting that this is what Mr. Lard is
thinking about at the very least at face
value. It just goes to show you um
what's at stake right now given the
political backdrop to all of these major
central banks. Clearly in Europe, in the
ECB, there are concerns over what way
the the French electorate might go in
next year's French elections. Depending
what government comes out of that, of
course, would have an important say in
choosing who gets to lead the ECB.
Madame Lagard's term is up at the
October 27,
again, face value, taking this as it is,
she's obviously worried, ECB is worried
that perhaps a populist government might
choose someone who might undermine the
independence of of the ECB. So it
notwithstanding there's so much about
this that we don't know yet know it does
drive home the fact that there's a lot
of worries now about central bank
independence a lot of worries about the
political backdrop and how of course a
mix of populism might ultimately impact
on on policym and of course nowhere
better to see that than what's going on
in the US right now
>> and thanks so much for staying up for us
that was our Bloomberger Fed and economy
reporter Ender Karin there from
Washington and coming up We're going to
continue the conversation around a
possible Fed rate hike with Pepperstone
Group and why they think US equity
underperformance is still the trade
right equity markets this part of the
world are taking their queue of course
from the the rebound in tech overnight
in the US S&P futures bottom of your
screen steady uh the equity story in the
Asia-Pacific today clearly is his
outperformance in Korea and remember
memory. Yep. Well, that's that's that's
down to that. Uh Chris Weston is with
us, head of research at Pepper Sterling
Group. Chris, good morning from Hong
Kong. Thank you for joining us, sir.
These these flows that we have seen in
in not just last night, just in recent
days, what does that tell you about
willing buyers willing to support this
global bull market?
Well, on the equity front, I think
that's that's very much the case. I
mean, it's still a bit of a stock
pickers market. I mean, we've seen that
earnings breadth come through and the
the love for the Mac 7 stocks has has
dissipated and people are are seeing a
more sort of universal earnings breth
and that's that's mean the stock price
uh stock pickers market and we see that
through realized correlation one month
correlation the S&Ps at what 6% so it's
rock bottom levels um and so you are
seeing that that those ability to you
know to to find growth um and you know
opportunity outside of the mag 7 complex
and you know the AI complex as well but
that's also on a geographical basis as
well. We've seen big out performance for
a while now from Europe and Japan and
Cosby and and those factors as well. But
yeah, the S&P at the moment is trading a
range 7,6800 and yeah, we expect it to
probably continue to trade that range in
the short term at an index level with
pockets of opportunity at a stock level
with um you know, increased
diversification and and opportunity
coming through from that that earnings
breath playing through. So yeah, I think
a range in the short term, but within
within under the hood, you know,
correlations are very low. Um and you
know you are seeing some decent move and
some decent opportunities playing
through
>> and what are the the the decent
opportunities that you're seeing in
particular?
>> Well, it depends on your time frame. I
think short term obviously we're very
much focused on the energy trade given
that the unfolding situations that are
that are taking place in Iran and and
and you the mobilization of troops over
to over to that situation. I think the
market obviously got very wrong footed
on that situation thinking that some
sort of deal was going to come through
and obviously the news flows change
quite radically overnight and and
obviously we're seeing potential some
some outperformance coming from from
energy. I still like from a bigger
picture situation I still think the US
underperforms. I think we're still going
to see um European equity markets which
are mostly trading all-time highs in an
index level you know continue to
outperform. I think Japan outperforms
even the ASX today. I mean, last time I
checked, we're about two points from an
all-time high because banks are
reporting pretty good numbers and
obviously material stocks continue to
find love and energy stocks are finding
buyers as well as well. But I think,
yeah, obviously when you come back to
the US, a lot's going to ride on the
numbers from Nvidia next week. But it's
interesting to see, yeah, there's just
probably one of the lowest amount of
attentions we've seen to Nvidia's
results that that I remember in many
many quarters. the implied volatility in
the stock is expecting a move up and
down or 5.3% which is one of the lowest
implied moves for a long time and I
think that just speaks to you know
people expecting them to meet earnings
to be to meet revenue and margins um but
you know what is the catalyst to see
them break out and I think what you're
seeing in the video trading at 190
what's it um 194 169 range is veryatic
of the overall index which is as I say
trading 71 70,000 to 6800 at the moment
Do you see the risk for Nvidia tilted to
the upside or the downside? Because
there's sort of two different themes at
play. There's been the hyperscalers that
have pledged major capex for 2026. But
then on the flip side, you've got
companies like the local media reporting
we have for Samsung today that they're
looking to price HBM at 20 to 30% higher
than they had for HBM 3. So that's
clearly going to dent Nvidia's margins
as well.
Yeah, like from a competition
perspective, I mean their margins at
this point are in a very good spot.
We're expecting yeah margins in this
quarter at 75% and the trajectory is
very much on the on the right hand side
as as long as that I think investors are
happy that that trajectory growth is
gravitating towards 77% by the end of
the year in the calendar year then yeah
that that's that's fine but maybe that
situation takes a back place but what
are we looking for from Nvidia? I mean
it's yeah I think what I think they're
expected to guide for the next quarter
to $71 billion margins a little bit
higher um they'll give or take in that
situation but is it going to really set
set the world alike I think what the
best way to trade the video at the
moment is is on a long short strategy
because you know it's holding up really
well in a market where other other areas
other the hyperscalers you know
something like microsoft have been under
pressure um you know a lot of the the
the capex commit is obviously
significantly hotter than what Mark's
for but this idea of return on on the
capital situation and of course you got
the disruption side of things where yeah
everything's come under undone even
REITs and you know some of the white
collar sort of um selling products have
come under pressure so but Nvidia's
holding up pretty well on a relative
basis so I still think you know they are
a beneficiary of everything we're
getting here and I think that's you
trade them from the long leg of that
situation and hope that they outperform
relative to that situation even memory
stocks as you talk about there have have
started to consolidate at very high
levels and are finding, you know, buyers
harder to come by at the moment. So,
look, I mean, I think Lunidia is doing
everything right. They they've got the
growth, they've got the the pipeline and
Jensen Huang's going to be very
positive, but I think in a market that
that that's unsure about putting new
capital to work in the AI spectrum. I
think you trade that as a long leg in in
a sort of relative basis there.
And Chris, on that point you just made
in memory, you know, the increasingly
less willing buyers at these levels in
Korea. Would would you is that is that
an early sign of a top in Korea for
example or or even Japan?
>> Well, I mean the Cosby has just been a
ridiculous market this year is I mean I
mean all the respect it's just a thing.
It's it's just absolutely gone. It's
just blown away every other market this
year and that's been a reflection of um
you know the the memory stocks and those
various factors. But yeah, it is
difficult to put money to work in this
market even though you've got um you
know you got such strength and obviously
they're a clear winner from the
fundamental story and you the supply
issue that's coming through. So I think
buyers on dips will be very much
prevalent in those markets. But I guess
it's hard to chase the price here and
and and wait till obviously you see new
money coming in, volume picking up and
then then then I'd be keen to chase that
because the collective are seeing
something that perhaps I'm not and I'll
back that. But for now, you know,
consolidation does keep me quite weary
in these stocks and I wouldn't be
necessarily buying and being aggressive.
I'll wait for the market to show me that
they're ready to take this one higher.
But yeah, look, I think um the AI story
is is is obviously changing every day. I
mean, we're hearing private companies
coming out now trying to con, you know,
trying to appease the funding markets
and saying, "Look, we're in a good spot
and yeah, trying to get ahead of an
issue." So, look, there are some
obviously some gray clouds circling
around here. Um I think obviously
Nvidia's number, but Oracle, I think
when they come out with their numbers, I
think it's estimated on the 10th of
March will be will be the big one. I we
know we know their funding mix but I
think that's going to get a lot of
attention from the market and I think
yeah if that could cause the next sort
of levered volatility coming through in
in the AI spectrum coming through play
in then that part
>> Chris very quickly in 10 seconds if you
could uh gold uh level to watch there
what would that level tell you?
Well, it depends on geopolitics, but
yeah, obviously the big level is is
5100. That's where we failed on the
upside multiple times. Obviously, if the
geopolitical situation um becomes more
precarious and crude prices really break
out to the upside, which would be
strange, but that that's possible, then
yeah, I think crude breaks that. But
otherwise, I think that's the level to
watch at the moment because
realistically, take away the
geopolitical issues and you've got the
debasement trade being unwound and being
called into question, which does put
some material downside in the gold price
short term.
Chris, thanks so much for joining us.
That was Chris Weston there, head of
research at Pepperstone Group. And you
can re-watch any of our segments via our
interactive TV function. That's TV go.
You can also become part of the
conversation by sending us instant
messages. So do check it out. This is
Bloomberg.
Right. Uh we're coming off quite a
decent rally on Wall Street overnight.
Uh not a lot of market action as far as
that corner of equities are concerned.
We are still feeling though in cash
markets that are up and running here uh
in the Asia Pacific. So no mainland
China, no Hong Kong, no Vietnam and also
no Taiwan uh today. Um and of course
those markets should be coming online on
a normal basis of course in the next few
minutes or some of them at least. Right.
Uh plenty more ahead. This is the China
show.
President Xi in your talk with him
recently uh uh warned about sending more
weapons to Taiwan. What was your
response then? Are you going to send
more weapons to Taiwan?
>> I have a response. I'm talking to him
about it. We had a good conversation and
we'll make a determination pretty soon.
Yeah, that was President Trump uh saying
earlier this week that he will soon make
a decision on weapon sale to Taiwan. Uh
the Wall Street Journal uh is now
reporting that a deal is in limbo in
limbo uh following pressure from
Beijing. Of course, it's not clear from
that sound bite whether or not the
discussion around uh consultations
question mark with Chinese President Xi
Jinping uh will factor into that
decision of course which is the the big
sticking point obviously as we go into
uh the thick of this specific issue. Uh
for more on this uh let's bring in our
Bloomberg politics editor Laura Davidson
here with us on set to talk us through
this and what is the likelihood of a uh
Taiwan arms deal uh materializes this
week in the coming weeks. um highly
unlikely that something comes together
just in a couple weeks. A couple
reasons. One is because these deals
typically take months if not years to
materialize. We just had one announced
um a couple weeks ago, this 11 billion
deal. And two, because of this upcoming
Trump she meeting um that's on the books
for April. Uh we we have gotten some
signs from Trump that uh that Trump and
she are talking about this. They had a
call a couple weeks ago. Trump after
that call said that he would soon make a
determination about whether there would
be a deal. the readout from the Chinese
side after this call, you know, had had
some pretty harsh language in there
saying, uh, you know, essentially the
tone was US butt out of of China Taiwan
relations here. Um, so this is really a
change in policy. The US previously has
not really let the relationship with
Beijing way into the relationship with
Tai Taiwan. Here we're clearly seeing
that these two things are interlin um as
they talk about trade, defense, and a
whole host of issues.
>> So what are the the levers? As you say,
it is very, you know, it's been that
core tenant of of of of
US policy toward Taiwan. It's keeping
Beijing out of it. But but if she is
able to exert some influence, what
levers is he likely to pull? Well, what
he has right here is he has Trump who
really wants to please she. We see every
time Trump mentions it, he says, "Oh, I
have a great relationship with the
Chinese president." Um, and as they're
going into this meeting, what every what
both sides want are what they call
deliverables. So, this is some sort of
actionable deal. Um and this could be
something as small as you know reopening
some consulates that were closed during
co or could be a massive economic deal.
What we've heard um from some reporting
from the journal is that they are
suggesting that the size of this
economic package that the Chinese are
willing to do a much bigger deal if the
US gives some concessions on Taiwan. So
we're really seeing these two things
interlin in a way that they have not
been in history and could really uh you
know really raise a lot of alarms um in
Taipei. And you know just taking a step
back, how has that relationship defense
and trade between the US and Taiwan
changed under Donald Trump?
>> Um it is really uh you know we haven't
seen policy-wise it changed. You we we
had this deal come together uh you know
this trade deal and and an arms deal
both come together in recent uh days and
weeks. But what we're seeing is a lot of
concern from Taipei as well as the
Chinese that there's you know a
potentially a a strategy shift here. you
see um you see the the Taiwanese worried
that if you know for example if a lot of
this chip manufacturing moves to the US
that suddenly the US isn't as reliant on
Taiwan from an economic security
perspective and therefore will be less
inclined to to give weapons particularly
if Trump you know wants to give some
concessions to to shei that is kind of
in all of the different levers here
appear to be one of the things that he's
most open to giving away in these
negotiations Laura thanks very much for
joining us that was our Bloomberg
politics editor Laura Davidson there and
we'll have more ahead this is Bloomberg.
Nayaki has been formally reappointed as
Japan's prime minister following her
resounding electoral win. now turning
her attention to the annual budget and
implementing a US trade deal.
>> As for the upcoming Japan US summit, I
would like to not only further enhance
the trust with President Donald Trump,
but also strengthen Japan US relations
in various fields such as national
security, economy, and culture.
Additionally, I am determined to enhance
Japan US economic security, including
critical minerals such as rare earths. I
would also like to have a discussion
with the US on how to proceed in the
marine mineral resource development in
the water surrounding Nemani Troshima.
>> For more, let's go to Tokyo and our
senior editor Brian Fowler. So Brian, it
seems that yeah, with this historic
victory in the lower house, really
Takuchi has a mandate now to to enact
some quite ambitious policies, but what
are likely to be her priorities, do you
think?
Yeah. So, first of all, uh she has to
push through passage of the national
budget for the fiscal year that starts
in April by March simply to avoid having
to put together some kind of
supplementary budget to tie us over
until that gets done. So, that's going
to be her first priority. The second one
is this this trade deal is is timely
because of course she's scheduled to
meet with President Trump in March. So,
she wants to get that done before she
goes there. So, they'll have something
to talk about. Uh, we've got the first
ranch that we heard about earlier this
week of $36 billion. We had NHK this
morning saying that the second batch
could include some kind of deal related
to next generation nuclear power
generation or perhaps copper refining
facilities or uh uh producing materials
for storage batteries such as lead. But,
you know, one interesting thing she said
last night is that even after this
election win, she doesn't think that
that gives her a green light to do just
whatever she wants, which is pretty
interesting considering she led the LDP
to the most decisive victory in history.
And yet, she's still talking about
building a consensus for her agenda. So,
I think that shows that she's going to
be very smart about first of all
prioritizing these these big things that
have to be done before she moves on to
the domestic agenda that she talked
about during the campaign.
>> Yeah. And Brian, I wonder then whether
that, you know, her I I don't want to
call it stepping back or, you know, you
know, sort of toning down the toning
down the language, but would that be an
indication that some of the whether
that's the budget or some of the
pronouncements domestically that she's
made leading up to the elections might
take longer to implement uh rather than
the opposite.
Well, you know, Takayichi is is pretty
famous for moving quickly. I mean, she
did an awful lot since becoming prime
minister back in October. And I think
that's one reason why she uh resonated
so much with Japanese voters. They see
her as somebody who really does focus
intensely on achievements and and so she
did she's she's toned down some of her
commentary. She's stressed that while
she does have this agenda to boost the
economy uh probably by by suspending the
tax on food purchases for two years, she
wants to talk about that. But she's also
emphasizing that whatever she does in
terms of fiscal policy, she she intends
to maintain a very responsible approach
to avoid stirring any concerns about the
national debt.
>> Brian, fantastic. Thank you so much.
Brian Fowler there, a senior editor in
in Tokyo Forest. And really this
resounding win coming through there is
really one of the validations that this
equity market in Japan has uh uh written
on as far as the latest catalyst was
concerned, right? And you know it this
is you know this sounds very strange in
my head when I say it that the Nickeian
stocks. It's not trading more expensive
than the S&P 500. uh let alone of course
relative to itself over the last two
decades or so. So what are the risks
that investors should be paying
attention to now that valuation is no
longer the main attraction here uh uh
out of the AK225. Let's bring in
Hideyukano our Bloomberg senior stocks
reporter to take us through this today's
taking stock piece and yes help us
understand the philosophy here. What are
we what are we talking about?
Yes. So um as you've mentioned the NIK
is now trading above Indian shares and
it's it's almost um its valuation today
is above 24 times its uh earnings for
the next 12 months. So it's almost as
expensive as NASA NASDAQ composite index
which is probably one of the most uh
expensive uh stock benchmark in in the
world. And so investors are starting to
question how much upside there will be.
And if you look at the broader topics
index, it's also traded at around 18
times the its earnings. Now its
traditional um range is of price and
earnings ratio was around somewhere
between 12 to 16% 16 times its earnings.
So it's way above its traditional range.
Now the question is um some people will
say that you know because Japan's
economy is changing there's inflation
and there's corporate governance etc. So
the topics may not be constrained by the
old valuation regime but the question is
what the new range will be. um is it um
14 to 18 times or is it 16 to 20 times
and if it's 14 to 18 times the market is
still expensive by the new standard. So
qu investors are very much becoming
cautious about buying uh the market
higher from here.
Yeah, it's interesting because even with
that caution, you still have Goldman
Sachs, Morgan Stanley, JB Morgan
upgrading their views on Japan just in
the last few days. But when you talk
about the the range and and the I guess
the risks as well, what are the biggest
ones that you've been seeing being posed
right now?
>> Yeah. Um there are other signals that
suggest that the market seems to be
quite overbought at least in the very
near term. Um one good indicator is to
look at how far uh the market is uh
relative to uh its moving average. Um
the topic is now trading at 20 more than
20% above its 200 day moving average.
Now uh in the past the market has has
seen pullback almost every time if the
in topics index rises about 15% above
the moving average. So it that also
suggests that the um there's a risk of a
correction in the market and also if you
compare the size of the Tokyo market
with Japan's GDP um there has been very
stable relation between the two and
if you look at that relationship you can
also draw a similar conclusion that
market is clearly a little bit over
bought at this point because um Japan 's
GDP is uh still less than 700 trillion
yen but the mark market capitalization
of Japanese market is almost reaching
almost double of that. Um so investors
are getting cautious again and they know
there are a lot of positive reasons for
the market but uh at the end of the day
the valuation does matter. So uh it will
be interesting to see how far the rally
can go on.
That was our Bloomberg senior stocks
reporter Hiyuki Sano there. And we can
do a deep dive actually into a company
now that's outpaced the gains we've seen
for the broader nicate since the April
lows of last year. This is Marata. It is
the world's largest supplier of
so-called MLCC's. They're tiny yet
essential components that regulate power
flow into electronic devices from the
likes of Apple iPhones, Tesla cars.
Their products are also in demand from
the hyperscalers now. It is a company as
well that says geopolitics are forcing
it to diversify supply chains and build
inventory to protect deliveries.
>> Yeah. And the company president Norio
Nakajima also told us that China remains
a key market despite these tensions with
the United States.
Of
course, depending on the area.
However, in case of MCC, we still have a
10 years difference.
Technical capability.
>> However, catching up time
>> is a rapidly
>> so getting
higher and higher.
>> A bulk of your business is in China.
even global customers inside China.
>> How are you affected by the geopolitical
tensions between Beijing and the west?
>> Mhm.
>> Some of the component we are producing
in China uh with integrated some local
materials
some local machine.
So most of area uh we ship uh the
material and the equipment from Japan to
China.
However, some competitive area
uh we purchase material and machine uh
domestic in China.
>> Which raises a question, what about
geopolitical tensions between China and
Japan as well? Does that complicate the
picture for you?
>> Yes.
And uh
after becoming a president on Yeah. 2020
uh we start to accelerate to have a
multi-
supply chains
and uh
we
try to cooperate or cover uh both
economical areas. one is US
centralized economic areas
>> and
another one is China centralized
>> economic areas. So population in China
is decreasing a lot at at this moment.
However, if I talk about the Chinese
centric economic area
will include some of Africa or other
areas
since uh they aggressively invest uh
infrastructure infrastructure to those
areas.
So uh our Chinese customer and
accelerate to expand their exporting
smartphones, PCs, other devices.
So Chinese market itself is still
growing.
>> You have talked about not having any
plans for US manufacturing just because
a lot of your components go into
products that are assembled here in
Asia.
If the geopolitical situation becomes
worse, could you even consider
localizing in North America?
>> At this moment, we have no plan.
However, again,
most of the data center demand
coming from US I think uh more than 80%.
So I think a very tiny MLCC it's a quite
difficult to transfer the technology to
from Japan to US
for MLCC type of business.
>> However some of assembly type of
business
>> we have some possibility
>> geopolitical tensions also impacting
real earth.
>> How is that affecting your business? Are
you readjusting reallocating based on
it? Of course uh first priority to
secure the our delivery to our
customers.
So we have some inventory
to secure
to avoid the supply constraints.
However, uh on the other hand, uh we
started the evaluate
so dual or triple supply chains
>> even for layers.
>> How long is your inventory uh run down
right now?
>> We cannot say exactly. However, if that
situation will continue more than two
years,
it it has some impact.
That was the Morata manufacturing
president Norio Nakajima speaking to us
in Kyoto. Now a reminder uh of our new
online feature here, the Bloomberg Video
Hub. Subscribers can explore live
streaming, news, interviews. You can
rewatch that of course that Sherry just
did there among many, many others of
course that we have done in recent days
or so. Documentaries, report analysis
and more of course check it
out.com/videos.
Right, welcome back. US 2-year yields
holding near highs over the last couple
of hours or so. Fed minute certainly
showing this uh openness to
potential rate hikes down the road if
the inflation story remains as sticky if
not worsens over the coming months or
so. Dollar as you can see 1190s. So
we're coming off quite a strong showing
the dollar are flat right now going into
of course the thick of things this this
Thursday the Asia Pacific.
>> Yeah. Let's also talk about central
banks in in this part of the world
because we've got Indonesia and the
Philippines. They're set to announce
rate decisions on Thursday and they are
expected to actually diverge to stave
off the risk confronting their
economies. For a preview, let's bring in
our Southeast Asia reporter CLA Jiao in
Manila. So, we can start with the
Philippines. It is expected to hold
rates, but but why are we anticipating
that and what are the factors playing
into that decision?
>> So, maybe the biggest factor that the
Philippine Central Bank will have to
consider is the decimal economic growth.
we've seen last quarter it went down to
3%. That's the poorest print we've seen
in nearly 15 years outside the pandemic.
And it really underlines how much that
massive corruption scandal regarding
infrastructure projects have really
dragged down uh investor confidence,
consumer confidence, and that will be
the main factor that the central bank
will be considering today. They're
largely expected to cut the key rate
again. uh if ever that would make it
around 225 basis points in this easing
cycle, one of the deeper easing cycles
we've seen from the central bank. Um
however uh the central bank governor has
signaled that they might be nearing the
end of the cycle now there's not much
more they can do to lift demand and they
are hoping that once public spending
improves and the graph probe finishes
that we will see an uptick in economic
growth later this year.
>> Uh cla what about Indo? Uh what's the
outlook there for that central bank?
Well, Indonesia would love to cut rates
like the Philippines, but they simply
have no window. It seems like they've
been on hold since October last year.
And now, if they were cautious last
year, they'll be even more cautious now.
We've seen deep market turmoil uh in the
past few weeks. You've had both the Msei
and Moody's uh creating warnings for
investors on a bunch of issues. You've
had investability in the stock market,
the fiscal outlook for Indonesia, even
policy uncertainty of this new
government. and that's caused a sell-off
in both stocks and then bonds. So, Bank
Indonesia will be keenly aware that the
rupee is near record lows, still the
worst performer in Asia even though
emerging market peers have largely
gained off dollar weakness. So, they
might be on hold yet again and they will
keep looking for room to cut rates later
later this year.
>> All right, fantastic Claire. Thank you
so much. Uh Claire Yao in Manila for us
with a preview of the two central bank
decisions in Southeast Asia. And she, as
she nicely laid out for us there, the
perhaps diverging paths because of uh
domestic idiosyncratic uh considerations
uh among both of course. All right. Uh
just very quickly uh well, first a
reminder in case you're just joining us
right now, a lot of markets are still
shut uh this Thursday in Asia Pacific.
That includes mainland China, Hong Kong,
Taiwan, and also Vietnam, which opens up
in the next hour. Okay. Uh two markets
in focus, Korea and Oz. As you can see
on your screens, we're in the thick of
earning season of course in Australia.
Not to mention this commodity price boom
we're seeing playing out across of
course the uh some of the big mining
stocks there and including of course the
financials which have been catching
quite a quite a strong bid as far as
that's concerned. On top of that you
also the jobs numbers coming out earlier
on providing a further boost I believe
to the yield space there. Aussie um uh
the ASX 200 up by about 1%. That should
be close if not extremely close to fresh
all-time highs there on the benchmark uh
itself. Okay. Uh very quickly, the
dollar's coming up on your screens.
Dollar Japan,
uh which is now again to the upside. And
yeah, guess what? We're now back to 155
give or take uh on the pair. They're
following a substantial move uh from
around this time yesterday on Dollar
Japan there. I think the biggest move in
since at least January. Um so we're
moving to the upside still weakening
there despite the dollar weakness that's
come through as well in the last couple
of minutes uh or so.
>> Yeah and just you mentioned ASX 200 at
or close to a record actually we are at
a record high. So uh the index there at
9100 points or just over and we are
seeing medals that are really are
leading the gains today. But more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. No trading across greater China
today. markets are still shut. Um,
mainland China of course in here in Hong
Kong. Uh, well, we have lot to talk
about elsewhere though when you look at
a market like Korea for example. So,
we'll get to the memory specific story
in a in a moment and the potential of
hikes there, price hikes specifically.
Um just in the last few minutes or so we
have resumed I believe trading on uh
several contracts uh following uh the
sidecar that was triggered about let's
call it about 18 minutes ago in in Korea
following the 6% move uh on the index
and also the contracts we have resumed
it as you can see of course on the
screen of cause DACA 150 we're up 6% the
NIK is also doing quite well and as they
say in Australia belood knows this uh
the market has been What's it fair
dingham?
>> Fair dinkham.
>> Yeah, fair dinkham. There we go.
Conditions. Is that a good way to
describe a spool market?
>> Uh, no.
>> Okay. Wrong application of of the term.
>> Nice try though.
>> Okay. We're set to close though at a
record high. There we go. What's the
point? Okay. Let's have a look at Look
at Belle showing off her Australian
again.
>> My lingo.
>> There we go. Uh, Samsung Eski Hinx HBM4
and the potential prices negotiations of
course could be 20 30% higher. Samsung
is up three and a half percent. It's not
playing out so much as far as SKH Highix
is concerned. Uh but yeah, let's um have
a look at what else is happening across
these markets. We talked about the
strong dollar, the weak yen, oil is also
starting to act up again. Uh to put all
those things together for us, Mark
Cranfield is with us out of Singapore,
our M Live strategist. Uh Mark, among
the many things that we just mentioned
there, and feel free to of course if we
missed anything, what's what's top of
mind for you this Thursday?
Well, it has to be has to be Korean
stocks. I mean, it's just it's just
quite funny to me personally because uh
during this Chinese New Year period, I I
was I was chatting with a couple of fund
managers and and they were saying,
"Well, maybe this long holiday in Korea,
maybe it will calm everybody down and by
the time they come back for trading when
the markets reopen, they'll have a more
reasonable approach to it." No, the the
market is just flying again. So as you
say, I mean increasing prices of it
already of products which are already in
high demand is is bound to be very
helpful for equities as well. So what
more could you ask or if you're bullish
on Korean stocks? Everything is nicely
falling into place to keep this going
and and no wonder we're having such a
great start to the reopening in in Korea
today. Um, of course, I mean there's
some big things in the background. We
still got to get through Nvidia earnings
next week as well. But if you if you
take Korea as an example of where money
has moved away from other parts of the
world to chase some of these dreams here
in Asia, looks as though Korean stocks
are set up for a pretty good run again.
And this may be maybe it's just the
start of yet another fantastic couple of
weeks for the market there.
Yeah, it's it's interesting dynamic and
and where else you're really seeing
investors piling into is still Japanese
equities even though there's concerns
maybe it's just getting too expensive
now. But but what are you watching there
in particular?
>> Oh, the the inflows are just crazy. I
mean, if you look at the latest the data
that came out this morning, the foreign
inflows were the biggest we've seen
since October. And it's already been a
very very strong run. And traders can
see this. the domestic traders can see
where the foreigners are coming from. So
in the past 12 weeks, we've had
something like 11 out of the 12 weeks
have been positive inflows and the
biggest one was the latest. So foreign
investors are really giving the Takiichi
government a really big thumbs up.
They're saying, "Okay, we really believe
in you. We're very happy to see the
direction you're taking. We believe in
these fiscal constraints you're talking
about. You've got the yen under control.
JGB yields have been coming down a bit.
the conditions look as though they're
extremely good for the Japanese market
to continue going. And then when you
compare it to Korean stocks, some people
are saying the valuations are pretty
high in Japan, but it's nothing like
you're seeing for the major stocks in
Korea, the Samsungs and the SKH Heinix.
So when you've got that as a comparison,
Japanese stocks are still looking as
though they're in a pretty good place.
>> Mark, just your thoughts on uh what's
happening in Sydney uh in Oz. Obviously,
we're in the I think thick of earning
season. Um obviously very commodity
heavy market. Um tends to be inflation
leading if if that's the scare that you
want to get into. But yeah, uh set for
record highs there in Australia.
>> Yeah, I don't I don't think anyone's
going to be too worried about the the
inflation situation in Australia when
you can see globally there's not a a
great deal of pressure yet from a global
point of view and you've got the
Australian dollar performing extremely
well which will offset some of their
inflation concerns there. I mean, we've
got stories on Bloomberg talking about
Australia now being the third biggest
country in terms of demand for places to
build these these AI data centers
because Australia's got obviously plenty
of land for them to be able to do so.
So, it's very easy for people to go
there. While you've got that going on, a
commodity boom, you got the RBA taking a
measured approach to raising interest
rates. No wonder the Australian dollar
is so strong. So all of that put
together and you compare it to other
markets in Asia as well. Yes, sure the
Australian market may be getting near
all-time highs, but then there are so
many markets which are doing the same
sort of thing and the US markets are
still looking relatively expensive as
well. So by comparison, Australia
doesn't really stand out as though
anyone should be too concerned about
that.
>> How close are you tracking oil prices?
cuz yesterday it was it was a very
significant move uh just given these
these geopolitical risks that we're
following around potential military in
intervention rather from the US into
Iran.
>> Yeah. From a trader point of view, I
mean that's the key point is how much is
that premium in the oil price related to
the situation between the US and Iran
and whether those talks fail or whether
it causes the United States to want to
to enact military action against Iran.
That premium is getting bigger. It could
be anywhere between $10 and $20 in the
in the oil price. So, as soon as that
situation cools down, oil prices could
fall quite a lot because from what we're
hearing, global supply is still pretty
good. Demand is okay, but it it's
there's a bit mismatch between supply
and demand. It's really all about that
geopolitical premium. Of course, if
there is actual military action, that
premium could go even fatter, but for
now, it's looking pretty chunky. That
amount of extra price in the oil is
really down to the Iran situation.
And from here it depends on the
announcements. We've got the President
Trump is going to have his State of the
Union next week and people are
speculating there will be quite a lot to
say about Iran there. So the premium
will probably stay for at least another
week and then let's see what happens
after Trump speaks because that is
really the key to how much further the
rally can go in or demand doesn't really
justify oil prices where they are. It's
all about geopolitics.
Yeah, it'll be interesting because of
course he can't also risk uh alienating
voters ahead of midterm elections this
year who might not want to see any sort
of aggressive intervention into into
Iran as well. But that was our MI
strategist Mark Cranfield there. And you
can follow more on this story, all of
the days trading on our Markets Live
blog. That's on the Bloomberg uh
terminal at MIGO. You can get a market
rundown in one click. There's commentary
and analysis from Bloomberg's expert
editors so you can find out what's
affecting your investments right now.
More ahead. This is Bloomberg.
taking a look at shares of the Japanese
chip equipment manufacturer Advantes
this morning because we are just seeing
the moving after we had some media or
some some reporting essentially that the
company is saying that it's looking at
whether an unauthorized third party
gained access to its network. They're
saying that a cyber security incident
was found on February 15, so just
earlier this week. uh they are looking
at the impact on financial results as
well that's currently being examined and
they've also isolated the affected
systems uh as part of their response
protocols. You are seeing that stock
though just a bit under pressure
>> right let's um turn let's stay in tech
just to borrow that theme and just carry
that over uh turn our attention to India
uh India is hosting one of the world's
largest AI summits this week a lot of
attention activity there of course from
today uh with Prime Minister Narendra
Modi seeking to lead this heated race to
develop frontier models the Modi
addresses the summit later Thursday and
we're joined um out uh on the ground
there out of Delhi uh with our insight
anchor and co-anchor Hus Amen covering
the event for us. Haz extremely busy
past 24 hours. I would imagine that even
ramps up even further today. Uh what's
what's the latest on the ground there?
>> Well, the latest on the ground is that
it's all a buzz with AI excitement.
Everywhere you go in New Delhi, you see
posters of Princess Narendra Modi who
has become the poster child for India
AI. Now on one of the pictures of
Narendra Modi, we actually had for India
AI stands for all inclusive and therein
lies the bold ambition of Indian AI. It
wants to give access to all its people
all 1 billion of them. uh you know India
is no stranger to technology of course
it's been on the radar of all companies
all tech companies in fact it ranks
third in terms of uh AI competitiveness
behind only the likes of uh US and China
but years of underinvestment
currently weighing on India's AI
ambition but that seems to be changing
because in the course of the last few
days we've seen a lot of commitment
already in fact India expects about $200
billion dollars of investment in AI in
the next two years and Adani has
committed about a hundred billion
dollars in the next decade uh to build
up India's AI and of course other
companies the likes of Google have come
out to say that they have lots of
initiatives including building you know
strategic fiber optics um linking the US
and India to help in this AI ambition.
So lots of initiatives being announced
just this week alone. We're waiting to
hear from Prime Minister Narendra Modi
later this morning on his own plans. Of
course, this is a big moment for uh
Prime Minister Modi. I mean, he's has
his peers coming as well. Lula is here.
Mcron is here. He's getting a lot of
support from the big tech uh the likes
of Microsoft Open AI. uh and I took that
opportunity actually to catch up with
the president of Microsoft to ask him
about not just their plans for India but
also uh their relationship long-term
relationship with OpenAI. Take a listen.
>> I think it remains a critically
important partnership for Microsoft. We
bet on each other but it's not as
exclusive as it was say a few years ago.
Open AAI uses our compute. They train
models in our data centers, but they
work with other companies as well. We
critically rely on OpenAI's frontier
models. They are among the best and many
days they are the best in the world, but
we have a relationship with Anthropic.
We use open-source models. We're
developing our own models. So on both
sides, we work with more partners, but I
think the partnership between the two of
us remains an imperative. It's a huge
priority for us at Microsoft.
>> Just to put that partnership in
perspective, of course, uh Microsoft has
been a key backer for OpenAI, but of
late, Microsoft has been building its
own AI models, is also exploring a lot
of different partnerships. Hence the
question whether or not that partnership
remains intact and we just heard from
Brett Smith. It is he says for the long
term.
>> Well, I'm glad the open AI aspect came
up has because we now have this breaking
scoop that's coming out as well and this
our viewers might have seen it. uh some
of our terminal clients already that
OpenAI specifically is close to
finalizing uh the first phase of a new
funding round uh which could rake in get
this $100 billion record-breaking
financing deal here uh that would
certainly give the should we still
calling a startup uh certainly it's
raising money not like a startup right
now uh to build out its AI tools and
really this goes into I think Sam
Almanuel is also where has this uh he's
set to attend of
uh the in the AI summit there, Bill Mel.
>> Yeah. Well, a hundred billion dollars
was sort of the the figure that had been
really speculated and what we've been
also reporting on, but more than a
hundred billion and also getting more
context on on who's going to be
investing what. So, you've got we're
hearing from sources that Amazon's going
to be looking at around $50 billion,
Soft Bank as much as $30 billion, and
Nvidia as well. I think this is an
interesting one cuz there was a lot of
reporting that maybe Nvidia was sort of
looking to back away from this and scale
down their investment, but we're still
hearing they're looking to put in $20
billion into this funding round. So, a
huge funding round valuation as well
also moving higher, but but has let's
just get more on on what you're hearing
there on the ground because you
mentioned Google and you actually spoke
with their AI research laboratory as
well, Deep Mind. So, so what did you
hear on that front?
You know it's quite interesting that we
are just talking about the funding
round. In fact I did post a question uh
to Google to deep mind in fact you know
why there is this rush in you know
wanting to invest and build out uh the
AI given that it is still uncertain what
the risks are out there and what the
real benefits are but of course they say
that you can't put gut rails on them.
you have to keep investing and uh you
know uh ensure that it works the best.
uh and in my conversation with uh deep
mind of course u the CEO Dennis Hassabis
we it was a wide-ranging conversation
val we talked about AGI for instance
which he says uh could become a reality
in the next four to eight years that's
really very very soon but more
importantly we talked about India why
now why India take a listen to what he
had to say
>> I've worked on AI my whole career my
whole life because I I believe it could
be the ultimate tool to accelerate
scientific discovery and medicine and
also help with some of the other grand
challenges facing society today like
climate change and energy. All of these
things I think AI can help and be
applied to on the more individual scale
and maybe also for India specifically. I
think that this incredible technology
powerful technologies sort of available
to almost everyone around the world
maybe only with a lag time of a couple
of months behind the absolute frontier.
So what I imagine if I was a young
person today working thinking about
working in technology maybe building a
business is I think there's incredible
untapped potential here uh and using
these technologies you can almost sort
of become superpowered you can kind of
do 10x of what I think an individual
engineer could have done in the past and
so I think there's incredible new
business opportunities uh and new types
of jobs um that will be even more high
earning and more valuable and more
fulfilling than perhaps some of the jobs
that will be disrupted by AI. How how do
we position for that?
>> No, I I would also just add just to add
a few more things. I think part of the
potential for every to benefit is
enormous. But I think there's some work
we all we all have to do. So for
example, if I think about questions of
access, that's so important. How do we
make sure everybody actually has access
to the technology to be able to use it,
capitalize it? Other questions of access
which are particularly important in
countries like India are access through
different languages. uh for example I
mean India has many many different
languages and I think focusing for
example on making sure that people can
actually access the technology in their
language in their culture and that's one
of the reasons we're spending so much
time on in the indic languages I we have
have a project right now with project
vani uh where we're trying to work
across something like over 700 districts
and all the dialects that are uh used in
those districts to see can we build in
more indic languages so if you think
about that question of access and
linguist istic access. That's one of the
ways you democratize the possibility of
people being able to take advantage of
this technology.
>> James Maneka there along with Davis
Hassab is uh giving that take on why it
is important to ensure that everybody
has access uh to AI. The question is how
do you do that? And in my conversations
uh here uh at the summit people say that
the best way to do it is actually
through an opensource kind of model as
opposed to a closed source of model
which is being adopted by the US.
>> Yeah. But certainly China is really
front and center when it comes to that
open-source effort. Uh has really great
there really great interviews as well.
We've got a lot more coming up with
Prime Minister Narendra Modi also set to
address uh the AI impact summit later
today. And subscribers can also turn to
the terminal for more on this ongoing
event. Uh tive go is your function for
the latest updates plus commentary and
analysis from our expert editors. More
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
Taking a look at some of the stocks that
are moving in the Aussie session today.
We've got the ASX 200 sitting around.
We're actually past an intraday fresh
record high. Lots of different earnings
as well that we're continuing to track.
And you can see here Riotinto for
instance, the moving to the upside. The
big story out of that one was that
they've boosted their stake in a
Canadian lithium miner. Uh you've also
got the likes of of Telra for instance.
Very strong gain there as well. their
first half dividend beating estimates.
So some gains from their mobile unit but
but uh Pilra Metals for instance uh West
Farmers as well moving very much to the
downside. So both of those companies in
focus but let's get more on the West
Farmers story because uh as we said they
are falling in Sydney those shares.
There was a warning about cost of living
pressures as it announced a 9% increase
in first half net income. Bloomberg's
Paul Allen joins us now from from from
Sydney. So Paul I think it's an
interesting one. We were just talking
there in the outbreak, but but I found
it fascinating that you've got in the
West Farmers portfolio, uh, Bunnings for
instance, the the the sort of, you know,
Home Depot store essentially, but you've
got, uh, Kmart, Target, these are
companies that typically seem to to to
benefit uh, when when people are feeling
pinched at the wallet.
>> Oh, absolutely. I think if you could
name two stores that the Canaries and
Australia's consumption coal mine, it's
those two, Bunnings and Kmart.
Australians love shopping at these
stores. And the fact that um West
Farmers sees fit to mention that there
might be a problem with the Australian
consumer, saying, you know, cost of
living pressures are uneven, um that
it's affecting some households. Um it's
worth listening when when West Farmers
says this. Now, the results from those
stores and Office Works as well did come
in in line with estimates, but it wasn't
enough for some of the analysts who
watch this stock. So, we're seeing West
Farmers sinking. It's off a little bit
more than 4% as you mentioned. Um, it is
off session lows, however. But, um, all
that said, net profit $1.3 billion, the
interim dividend two per share. It's not
too unhealthy. And West Farmers is also
very diversified. They're involved in
the chemicals, mining, fertilizers
business as well. Um the revenue from
the health business was a narrow beat
also. So it's not all doom and gloom and
the figures released for the first six
weeks of the second half suggest that
the consumer is hanging in there. That's
despite the rate rise that we saw from
the RBA uh earlier this month.
>> Paul uh just to talk about the other big
well among the big ones of course coming
out today Rio's due out with results in
the next few hours or so. Uh what what
is the market expecting there from the
minor?
Yeah. Well, Bloomberg Intelligence is
expecting EBIT data to increase from
anything between 14 and 17%. That would
take it up to a figure of maybe 25
billion. So, that is higher than
consensus. Uh, Riotindo does rely on
iron ore for about half of its revenue.
Iron ore prices have softened a little
bit more than forecast in the second
half. Uh, you mentioned lithium there in
the introduction. Riotinto is attempting
to diversify. So it's taken a majority
control now of that uh Namasa lithium
project in Canada as well. Now copper is
another segment that we're going to be
watching closely because BHP did so well
out of copper in the last half. Uh
Riotendo's copper exposure somewhat less
but that giant ouyo copper mine in
Mongolia is starting to approach full
capacity. So we'll be watching for some
commentary around that. And speaking of
commentary, uh we heard from the Glen
Core CEO as well in the past 24 hours.
And of course these results fall in the
period that those merger talks between
Rio and Glenor did not get fulfilled.
But the Glenor CEO Gary Nagel saying
that the world's top miners are going to
have to get bigger because the mining
space, the metal space, the commodity
space becoming increasingly political
and these miners are now much much
smaller than those big AI tech firms. So
he's saying they're going to have to get
a lot bigger uh to get the ear of
political leaders.
Paul, thank you so much. Paul Allen
there in Sydney for us. Let's stay on
the on the market steam here
specifically when you look at some of
the markets that are up and running
right now. Singapore is actually
punching uh quite substantially to the
upside here. Singtel uh and OCBC. I
think we are in fact at about and just
bear with me while I just double check
this. Uh volumes are about 30% heavier
than usual and the straits times at
about just a shade under 5,000. should
be putting us very close to record
levels in fact. So we are just shy of
the yeah a couple of days back of course
is when we touched that uh 5,000
handle right soft bank shares this could
be open AI related.
>> Yeah it definitely seems to be cuz
you're seeing that big move intraday
after we have that report coming out
that the open AI funding is on track to
exceed hundred billion in that latest
round and what we're hearing from our
sources is that SoftBank could be
looking to put $30 billion into that. So
of course very much tied to the outlook
for that major AI company in the US. But
more ahead, this is Bloomberg.
There we go. Paponoid robots. They're
taking center stage on Monday at China
Spring Festival Gala. The show featuring
of course robots from four startups
including Uni Tree performing the dance
moves in a kung fu routine alongside
human performers. uh state media quoted
unre founder as saying the industry is
advancing quote beyond mere technical
display toward a full ecosystem from
foundational models to real world
applications. Now certainly clips of the
performance quickly went viral on social
media given of course the scenes there.
Uh reactions though have been uh mixed.
Uh when you look at one of the comments
coming through so far on the right side
of your screens I'm completely uh
scratching my head. Uh robot kung fu has
reached the pinnacle of the world. It's
so amazing. And of course a robot
specifically out of unitry is is too
powerful. It can do all sorts of things.
robotic stocks as an adjective of course
to referring to the equity complex are
significantly higher after the holiday.
Now last year's dancing robots were
worlds apart from tonight's and the
performance exceeded expectations for
sure. Exclamation point.
>> Well, I have to say not everyone was so
optimistic or positive on social media
because there was also people saying
what's the point of seeing all of these
robots during the Luna New Year holiday
rather? It's a time for for family
reunions, celebrations, and they're
saying that actually the place for these
is at China high-tech fairs or robotics
exhibitions. Also, another commentator
saying that the development of robots
should aim to replace humans in
performing urgent, dangerous, and heavy
tasks, but saying that right now robots
look a lot more like toys for the
wealthy. I think though if you to make a
comparison from 2025 to 2026, I think it
was also just the sheer scale of use at
at robots this event because in 2025 it
was a lot of pressure on on Uni Tree
because they were the sole exhibitor or
the sole performer in this and they had
that synchronized dance routine. This
time around though, as you said, we were
seeing we were seeing multiple companies
Uni Tree uh Galbot, Magic Lab, No Tix
Robotics as well. So more companies in
the mix and also different things
they're doing as well.
>> What about the I mean you're closer to
this world than I am. Bill in terms of
the where is the conversation right now?
I mean certainly they are much more
functional. They you know naked eye they
they're a lot more smoother. Um every
time I see something like this it
reminds me of that film. Do you remember
real steel back in 20? It was Hugh
Jackman I think. Uh but in terms of the
uh commercial application of of robots,
where is that convers and how is that
conversation evolved? Like what do we
what do we need robots for in the world?
>> Well, we know what we need robots for,
what they what their applications are
likely to be. And it's really that key
question of when we can when can we get
them into households and you did see
more household tasks for instance being
performed at the spring gala. But you
speak to anyone in the industry and they
say that we're really still years away
from that happening because real world
environments are messy and it's very
difficult to to program and to have the
robot from a software basis ready for
those sorts of environments. So in the
meantime, it's really this focus on
commercialization strategies and and to
that end, you see a lot of a lot of
robots companies in China also looking
to academics and to universities as as a
key sales channel at least in the near
term.
>> Okay. Well, yeah, interesting. Uh
certainly I wonder what 2027 I'm not
looking at 2027, right? Just looking how
big the leap was from last year to your
point to 2020 to 2026. Uh meanwhile
though of course as we pivot now to
India you know an Indian university is
now facing criticism and this is uh
quite something too for allegedly
passing off a robot dog made by as its
own uh at the India AI uh impact summit.
Now a government source told us
representatives uh from Galgoz
University uh were ordered to leave the
summit on Wednesday. Now, the backlash
came after an online video showed a
faculty member claiming that the robot
was formed from the school's center of
excellence. Uh, in a post on X
University says it did not build a robot
and never claimed to, but was using it
for student research.
>> Yeah, I think that's a really
fascinating story and I I think if it
sort of underlines anything as well,
it's just how much China is really
dominating in the hardware space. But
yeah, certainly certainly uh quite an
interesting anecdote I guess coming out
of that AI impact summit underway in
India. But let's get back to our our
breaking news story now as well because
as we've been reporting, OpenAI said to
be close to finalizing the first phase
of a new funding round that's likely to
bring in more than hundred billion. Uh
let's get the details now from
Bloomberg's Natasha Musca Renesis in San
Francisco. And Natasha, thanks very much
for joining us and and great reporting
on this front as well. So yeah, we've
been hearing about this $100 billion
figure, but now it seems like we're
going to be in excess of that and more
details as well on the the funding
breakdown where the money is exactly
coming from.
>> Yes, absolutely. Thanks for having me.
So listen, the deal is not yet finalized
and we're expecting details to
consistently be changing, but we are now
reporting that OpenI is close to
finalizing commitments from investors
and this includes Amazon, Soft Bank
Group, Nvidia, and Microsoft. If those
companies invest near the highest ranges
of what has been discussed, the
commitments will near 100 billion. Um,
and we are expecting to get more color
on this by the end of this month. The
other key detail is that the overall
over overall valuation of the company
including this funding could exceed 850
billion. That's higher than what we
initially expected. Um although the
company's pre- money valuation will
still remain 730 billion. So big
updates, big changes. Um and the
strategics are are putting the finishing
touches on the round for for this trunch
so far.
>> Natasha David here. I wonder how much we
know about the, you know, the role of
Nvidia. I think Bel was pointing out a
few minutes back that there were some
conversations how committed Nvidia was
over the short term, over some
substantial amounts of money. What can
you tell us about Nvidia's role here?
>> Yeah, listen, Nvidia has discussed
putting in 20 billion into the OpenAI
round, which is what we previously
reported. It's a meaningful investment
for them, but it is one that's still
being discussed. We're expecting it to
be close to being completed. And so to
me, yeah, the big question would be to
see if that number budges either upwards
or downwards. The other thing we've
reported, speaking of Nvidia and
OpenAI's relationship with Strategics,
is that OpenAI is expected to expand its
use of actually Amazon's chips and cloud
computing services. So, I mean, I think
it's fair to say that OpenAI is
definitely working with several players.
Um, Nvidia being one of them, but Amazon
also um continuing expansion there.
Natasha, great to have you with us and
and and great reporting as well on this
story. That was Natasha Mascarinas there
joining us from San Francisco. And you
can re-watch, of course, any of our
segments via interactive TV function.
That's TV go. You can also become part
of the conversation by sending us
instant messages. So do check it out.
This is Bloomberg.
Well, Microsoft's president Brad Smith
said the company's partnership with Open
AI remains crucial. That's even as they
expand work with other AI developers.
Smith also told us the company's on
track to spend $50 billion to bring
expanded AI infrastructure to the global
south.
>> I do think we need to act with urgency.
Today, about a quarter of the population
in the global north has access to and is
using generative AI, but only 14% in the
global south. And when you look at the
rates of growth, it's almost double in
the global north what we're seeing in
the south. So just as electricity
divided the world, the countries that
had access to it for a century
industrialized that grew their
economies, the countries that lacked
access to electricity fell behind. We
will turn this moment, I believe, either
into a moment where we will close this
divide. We can use AI to really enable
the global south to catch up in terms of
economic growth or we will continue and
maybe risk even exacerbating the great
economic divide that defines our world
today.
>> But what's most at risk for the global
south? Is it jobs? Is it jobs getting
eliminated, reshaped? What exactly is
the biggest concern?
>> I think fundamentally it's economic
development. It's prosperity. Because
when you have a generalpurpose
technology, meaning something like
electricity that reshapes the entire
economy, what history tells us is that
the countries that deploy it, adopt it
widely grow faster than those that do
not. So it's about productivity growth.
It is about job growth. It's about
opportunities for a new and younger
population. It's about opportunities to
solve realworld local problems using the
best technology available.
>> Microsoft committing $50 billion by the
end of 2030. What would be the priority
for that kind of investment in funding?
>> Well, we at Microsoft made clear we're
on pace to spend $50 billion by 2030 to
bring AI to the global south. If you
think about what happened with
electricity, private capital did not
come to these countries. They didn't
bring power plants to these countries.
This starts, I think, actually with
investment and capability. So when you
see a company like Microsoft investing,
and we're obviously not alone, that's
encouraging, especially since the
investment is all about worldleading
technology.
But it's just a start. I think it's
going to require a massive amount of
funding. Um, it is really going to
require getting the private markets
moving. It's going to require
governments using AI because they play
key roles in generating demand. And we
need to scale the population. That
requires schools. It requires
government. It requires tech companies
all working together. That's another big
part of what we at Microsoft are
announcing here this week. All this
happening at a time when a lot of people
are getting skeptical when it comes to
AI. We talk about how AI will take away
their jobs. We talk about how AI is a
technology that's actually enriching the
tech titans. How do you reframe? How
should we frame the AI story?
>> Well, fundamentally, I think we should
recognize a few things. These kinds of
technology waves typically take years
and decades, not weeks or months. I
think we should recognize that none of
this is fundamentally ever about what
technology does to people. It's about
people making decisions about how to use
technology. People who run businesses,
people who run governments, people who
run nonprofits. We have an opportunity,
I believe, to use AI to make jobs better
for people. There will be some processes
that are automated. There will be some
jobs that are displaced, but new jobs
will be created, but mostly I think many
jobs will change. And the key is to give
people access to AI tools, give them the
skills that they need to use them, give
people the opportunity to innovate in
how they work. I think when you do that,
you create a much better foundation for
the future.
>> Given what you have just expressed, I'm
just wondering how that's shaping the
way you hire in the countries that you
do business in like India. I had a
fascinating conversation earlier this
week in another country. Somebody who
works in a company was describing the
contest they had so that employees could
use AI and create more use cases to
create uses of AI that advanced
productivity or built better products.
But the most interesting thing this
person said to me was it wasn't
fundamentally about creating a better
product. It was about finding the people
who wanted to lean in, who wanted to
innovate, who had creativity and
ambition.
I think there's something that's
important and even inspiring for all of
us in that. Give people access to the
tools to AI. See what they can do. If
you find an employee who wants to
innovate, that says that that's an
innovative person. That's the kind of
person you want to bet the future of
your company on by investing in their
development.
>> So in an AI future world, would you be
hiring more or fewer people?
>> I think I might be hiring the same
number of people. I think they might be
doing different things than in the past.
I do think that entry level work
inevitably is changing. instead of
coming in and just doing one thing and
you know it may be more the basic
research or checking of citations or
sources. I think entry- levelvel work
may become a little bit more like
apprenticeships.
It may become something where you want
people to be exposed to multiple
different tasks and skills for the first
year or two. I think this is a great
time for employers that are farsighted.
What do you really care about the most
if you're a great employer when you're
hiring someone new? Is it somebody who's
going to do something that needs to get
done for the next six months but may not
be all that demanding? Or are you hiring
people who are going to become the
employees that will lead your firm into
the future? The people who three and
five and 10 years from now are likely to
be sparking the innovation you need.
that I think is and often should be at
the heart of what great employers are
looking for. Right now, we all know it's
a tough job market for people graduating
from universities.
But flip that on its head. It's a great
time for employers who are far-sighted,
who care about talent, who want to
invest in people, who are going to build
the workforce, not just for the next
year, but for the next decade and
beyond. I think that's what we want to
be at Microsoft. I think that's what
everybody who really has a long-term
vision should aspire to do. And we need
to make AI and AI tools and AI skills a
fundamental ingredient for everybody
that we hire in that way.
>> Brad, I want to take a look at your
Microsoft's partnership with OpenAI. How
do you see that evolving longer term?
>> Well, I think it remains a critically
important partnership for Microsoft. We
bet on each other, but it's not as
exclusive as it was say a few years ago.
Open AAI uses our compute. They train
models in our data centers, but they
work with other companies as well. We
critically rely on OpenAI's frontier
models. They are among the best and many
days they are the best in the world, but
we have a relationship with Anthropic.
We use open-source models. We're
developing our own models. So on both
sides we work with more partners but I
think the partnership between the two of
us remains an imperative. It's a huge
priority for us at Microsoft.
>> The question is why is it a hedge? Is it
a strategic pivot? How would you
describe that move looking at
alternative partners?
>> Well look if you want to think about the
partnership between open AI and
Microsoft all you have to do is ask one
question. Would any of this generative
AI sector even exist if the two of us
had not come together? Open AAI created
something that no one else even
understood was possible when they
launched Chat GPT. And OpenAI could
never have created that without
Microsoft's compute and really frontier
data centers on which to train that. We
built something special. We'll each do
special things on our own. We'll each do
special things with other companies.
We'll each do, I think, very special
things with each other.
>> Just one final question because we're
running out of time, apparently.
Co-pilot, is it losing traction?
>> I don't think so. It's gaining ground.
It's getting better every week. It's
getting better every month. I say this
as a user not just of M365 copilot but
our consumer co-pilot, our researcher
agent, our other agents. You know, we're
seeing usage grow. We will continue to
add features and functionality. Um I
personally think it is an important part
not just of Microsoft's past and
present. It is a key part of our future.
It is a key part of I think making
everyone more creative, more productive.
I certainly find that in my own work
each and every day.
>> Has Linda there of course with the
Microsoft president Brad Smith. Uh, of
course big event of course today there
in India. So stay tuned of course for
lots more coming through there out of
our coverage there on the ground
webhouse.
>> Yeah. And you're also taking a look at
our new online feature. That's the
Bloomberg video hub. So subscribers can
explore live streaming news, our
interviews, all of our Bloomberg TV
shows, documentaries, reporter analysis,
and more. So do check it out at
bloomberg.com/videos.
This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back to the China Show. Here are
some of the top political stories that
we're tracking. And the Wall Street
Journalist reporting that a major US arm
sale to Taiwan is in limbo following
pressure from Beijing. The report says
some in the Trump administration are
concerned that approving the deal could
derail the president's upcoming visit to
China. Trump said earlier this week that
he had discussed the issue with she and
would make a decision soon.
A South Korean court is set to deliver a
verdict on Thursday against former
President Yunsukul that could see him
sentenced to death over his shock mar
shock declaration of martial law in
2024. The Soul Central District Court
hearing caps a year-long insurrection
trial that began shortly after his
short-lived attempt to impose military
rule. Prosecutors are seeking the death
penalty, but Yun could also be sentenced
to life in prison.
Former president or former Philippine
president rather Rodrigo Duterte says
he's not well enough to attend next
week's pre-trial hearing at the
International Criminal Court. In a
request filed by his lawyers, Duterte
says he's old, tired, and frail and
accepts the fact that he could die in
prison. The 80-year-old was arrested
last March on charges of crimes against
humanity linked to his brutal anti-drug
campaign which killed thousands of
people.
National Economic Council Director Kevin
Hasset has blasted a New York Fed study
on tariffs, calling it an embarrassment
and saying those behind it should be
disciplined. The Fed report found that
nearly 90% of the tariff burden in 2025
fell on US companies and consumers. Het
argues the research overlooks changes in
import volumes and insists Americans
will ultimately benefit from the
tariffs. Okay, just an update in case
you missed the news coming out of uh
Japanese chipmaker. Of course, we are on
the break there out of the company. So,
it may have suffered a ransomware uh
attack. So, and this was a few days
back, right? So, it's the 19th of Feb
here in the Asia Pacific already if
you're watching us of course out of
another time zone. Uh so the company
said it detected unusual activity back
on the 15th with prelim findings
suggesting it's unauthorized third party
access into uh the company's network.
They're still um examining any potential
financial uh impact on financial
results. Shares of course as you can see
on the launch break right now down about
2%. Um and a lot of the declines did
happen at about the same time as we did
get more lines coming through here out
of the company as it pertains to the
specific uh ransomware suspected
ransomware attack. Okay. Uh movers in Oz
coming up on your screen. So we have Rio
of course earnings coming through later
today. Keep an eye on that. Uh big
miners of course are also punching much
much higher today. And of course as it
pertains to the market itself at 9,100.
We're uh effectively now set for a an
all-time high close. We'll see how of
course the rest of the trading session
unfolds. Uh right, let's have a look at
the Cosby P index one. Of course, it has
been really trading to the upside
substantially and within that of course
you have the likes of Samsung coming up
on your screens. Uh on the back of
reports locally that it is negotiating
higher HBM4 prices that could be in the
order of about 20 30%. Cosby is up 3%.
We talked about odds Singapore up 1%
also in heavy heavy volumes today. And
of course, we're also looking at A50
futures because we are uh still on a
holiday here in Hong Kong and also on
mainland China. Speaking of on top of
those two markets, Taiwan is also not
trading today as well as Vietnam. Okay,
that's it from us here today on the
China show. We will see you all tomorrow
inside with Hassenda Amen is coming up
next.